Hey there everyone, and welcome
to the fresh new section
of handling exceptions in Python.
Now if we compare this
to the real world, when you are
operating your chai shop,
a lot of things can go wrong.
Maybe you have spilled something,
maybe some ingredient is missing,
or maybe there's something wrong
in the brewing process at all.
There are a lot of things
that can go wrong in a real
world brewing shop of a T.
Similarly, a lot of things can
go wrong in the T, shop as well as
in the code part as well.
That's exactly what we want to fix.
In this entire section.
We want to discuss and talk about
how things can go wrong when we are
writing some code and how
we can gracefully handle that.
That handling part is the most
important things will go wrong,
there is no question about that.
But the way how you handle
it as best as possible,
that's always a good idea.
So let me take you on the screen
and we're going to write some
code and let's discuss about this
exception handling in Python.
All right, so let me take you
onto the screen and where we
are going to discuss all
of the things that are happening up.
So welcome to the first section
of exceptional handling.
And just to remember this, I'll
give you a few analogies so
that you can always remember.
All right, so what is this kind
of exception handling?
When you're a part of a big chai
journey, you want to sell a lot of
chais, a lot of things can go wrong.
Some example could be, let's
just say we have a milk spill.
Spill, Yeah, a Milk got spill.
Or maybe a simple missing
ingredient, or maybe something
is wrong in the brew steps.
So these are the common one
that we can figure out.
But there could be a lot more
which can absolutely go wrong.
So all of these things,
nobody likes them, but they actually
happen and we need
to learn how we can handle them.
So handling all of these incidents,
being aware that these
are the common mistakes
that happens in my chai shop.
I just want to handle them
so that they don't actually
crash my entire shop.
I just gracefully handle them.
Same thing happens when there
is a problem in your code.
You don't just crash the entire
program, you just handle
them gracefully so that the rest
of the program
can actually work pretty easily.
I'll show you some example of that.
Like what could go wrong?
Usually we write our code very
carefully, but no things do happen.
And let me show you,
by creating a new section, we are
on to the 11th section.
And let's call this one as
exceptions and let's call
this one as 01 Basic Py.
We will open up our file right
here, open an integrated terminal so
that we can directly run this.
All right?
And we'll close our
AI feature as well.
All right, so what can go wrong?
And you might be thinking, hey,
I just need an example for it.
All right, here is your example.
Somebody is placing orders.
So here is an array of the orders.
The first chai that we have is going
to be masala and the second
chai that we have is ginger.
How conveniently we have said it as
second chai, second ginger.
But when you go ahead and try
to simply have the print statement
on orders and you try
to access the second value,
There we go, the very first error.
We have already made it,
let's go ahead and run this.
So I'll just go ahead and say Python
3 and this is going to run this.
And we can see that this is
list index out of range.
And this is a well known
error which is index error.
So we found that.
Can we handle that?
Gratefully, yes we can.
But there are some errors
which are just like this.
We can see index error.
We have other kinds of errors
as well available to us.
So index error is just one
of them, which usually happens
when the index doesn't exist.
But again there are
different ways how it works.
So there is another one
which is known as key error.
What is this key error?
When a key is missing
in the dictionary.
So this is another kind of error.
Now nobody remembers all of them.
I just happen
to remember a few of them.
Very famous, everybody knows this.
This is zero division
error in the programming.
We don't have a concept of infinity
in the mathematical world.
When we divided by zero,
it tends to infinity.
Doesn't really mean infinity
tends to infinity.
The same goes here.
In the programming world we
cannot actually do that.
We just simply throw
an error which is division.
Then there is also error, which
you'll see these days quite
a lot, which is type error.
This happens when there
are incompatible type
String mixed with integer.
Integer mixed with string.
So type error also happens.
And then we have this
something known as name error.
Yes, this is something comes
up when the variable is not even
defined and you are trying to use,
Does anybody remember all of them?
No, nobody remembers all of them.
Just happen to remember.
You will also get to remember
a few of them, but not all of them.
Even if you don't remember any one
of them, that's totally fine.
Eventually just by looking
at the error, you'll figure out all
right, this is what the error says.
And in the special line last two
versions of Python, whatever the
three after dot, that means that
version, they have actually worked
quite a lot in the errors, as well
as how this error can be helpful for
a developer.
So they have done pretty interesting
and tremendous job onto this one.
So I hope you got a brief idea
of how it works and how it
looks like in the next video.
We will further nail it down
and try to go in depth about
how we can actually handle these
exceptions or errors.
Let's go ahead and catch
up in the next video.